{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cambria;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green77\blue187;\red155\green0\blue211;\red255\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\cf1\b\f0\fs28\lang1033 Q1. What is CSS?\cf0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Cascading Style Sheet(CSS) is a stylesheets language used to describe the look & presentation of a document written in HTML or XML. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}It define how element are display on web page.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}CSS make website visually appealing and user friendly.\par

\pard\par
\cf1 Q2. How to code in CSS?\cf0\par
        h1\{\par
            color: red;\par
            font-size: 32px;\par
        \}\par
\par
\cf1 Q3. Creator & Maintenance of CSS?\cf0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 CSS was created by a group of individual known as the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C).\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Primary contributors including Hakon Wium Lie and Bert Bos.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}CSS standards and specification are maintained by W3C.\par

\pard\par
\cf1 Q. What is CSS rules?\cf0\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 A CSS rules consist of a selector and a declaration block.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Declaration are used to define the style properties for the selected elements.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Each declaration consist of a property and value.\par

\pard         \tab\par
Syntax - Selector \{ Property : Value ; ......etc\}\par
\par
\cf1 Q.What is declaration?\par
\cf0 Declaration is the combination of property and value which is declared in the selectors.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. How to use CSS in HTML?\par
\cf0 There is a three way to use CSS in HTML file!\par
\par
1. \cf2 Inline CSS\cf0  - It is used to apply directly to an HTML element using the style attribute. specificity of inline CSS is higher than Internal and External\par
\par
2. \cf2 Internal CSS\cf0  - It is used to define within the style tag with the HTML document's <head>. specificity of internal CSS is higher than External.\par
\par
3. \cf2 External CSS\cf0 - It is stored in separate CSS file linked to the HTML document using the <link> element.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Tag/Element selector in CSS?\cf0\par
The tag/element selector is used to select and style HTML element based on their tag name, like <p>, <h1>, <div> etc..\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is class selector?\par
\cf0 The class selector is select HTML element based on class attribute. (.) dot represent the class selector in CSS!\par
Syntax-\par
        .btn\{\par
            color: blue;\par
            font-size: 1rem;\par
        \}\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is id selector?\par
\cf0 The id selector is select HTML element based on id attribute. (#) represent the id selector in CSS!\par
Syntax-\par
        #btn\{\par
            color:blue;\par
            font-size: 1rem;\par
        \}\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Pseudo-Class in CSS?\par
\cf0 A CSS pseudo class is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state of the selector element(s).\par
Syntax-\par
        a:hover\{ \par
            color:red;\par
            font-weight:bold;\par
        \}\par
\par
\cf1 Q. How to comment in CSS?\par
\cf0 By using "backslash star, star backslash"  - /* comment */ we can comment in CSS!\par
\par
\cf1 Q. How many types Color's in CSS?\par
\cf0 CSS provides several ways to define colors. We can use named colors - (e.g., "red")\par
hexadecimal values(e.g., #7485)\par
RGB(Red, Green, Blue) values (e.g., rgb(0,0,0))\par
HSL (Hue, Stauration, Lightness) values.\par
\par
\cf2 Named color\cf0 : You can used named color, which are predefine named color.\par
\par
\cf2 RGB color\cf0 : RGB(red, green, blue) values allow to define colors by specifying the amount of RED, GREEN and BLUE in the color.\par
\par
\cf2 RGBA color\cf0 : It is similar to RGB but includes alpha channel for opacity control.\par
\par
\cf2 Hex color\cf0 : You can specify color by using hexadecimal values.\par
\par
\cf2 HSL colors\cf0 : HSL(Hue, Saturation, Lightness) values provides a way to specify colors based on their hue, saturation and lightness.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is background in CSS?\cf0\par
Background in CSS is used to set properties of an HTML element according to use.\par
\par
There are some property which is mostly used in CSS.\par
1. \cf2 background-color\cf0  - It is used to set the color of an element.\par
2. \cf2 background-image\cf0  - It is used to set the image on the background.\par
3. \cf2 background-repeat\cf0  - Determine how the background image repeat.\par
4. \cf2 background-position\cf0  - set the starting position of the image.\par
5. \cf2 background-size\cf0  - Define the size of the background image.\par
6. \cf2 background-attachment\cf0  - Specifies if the background image scroll with the content.\par
7. \cf2 background-blend-mode\cf0  - It is used to saturated the color.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is units in CSS?\par
\cf0 Units in CSS is measurement used to define the size of an element's properties.\par
\par
There are two type of units in CSS.\par
1. \cf2 Absolute Length\cf0  - Absolute units are fixed and appear as exactly that size.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf2 Pixels (px)\cf0  - It is an Absolute unit of measurement in CSS. representing the smallest unit of screen space.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}\cf2 Inches (in)\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Points (pt)\cf0\par

\pard 2. \cf2 Relative Length \cf0 - Relative units scale better between rendering medium.\par
\cf2 em\cf0  - It is Relative unit that is calculated based on the font-size of the parent element.\par
\cf2 Root em (rem)\cf0  - It is also relative unit like em. but it based on the font-size of the root (html) element.\par
\cf2 Percentage (%)\cf0  - It is based on the parent element's size or the containing block.\par
\par
\cf2 Syntax\cf0  - \par
    \cf2 for pixels\cf0  -\par
        h1\{\par
            font-size: 54px;\par
        \}\par
    \cf2 for Percentage\cf0  -\par
        (100% = 16px)\par
        1px = 6.25%  \par
    \cf2 for em \cf0 -\par
        1em = 16px\par
    \cf2 for rem\cf0  -\par
        h1\{\par
            font-size: 1rem;\par
        \}\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is font in CSS?\par
\cf0 There are some properties in fonts-\par
\par
1. \cf2 Font Family\cf0  - It is used to specify the font of the text.\par
2. \cf2 Font Size\cf0  - It is used to control the size of the text.\par
3. \cf2 Font Weight\cf0  - It is control the thickness of the characters ranging from 100(thin) to 900(bold).\par
4. \cf2 Font Style\cf0  - It is used to applies style in our element like italic, normal(default) , oblique etc.\par
5. \cf2 Font Variant\cf0  - \par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is text-properties in CSS?\par
\cf0 Text properties in CSS we can used to set text-property on html element. there are some properties in text that we can use -\par
\par
1. \cf2 Text-Alignment\cf0  - It is control the horizontal alignment of text within an element's box. - common values are `left`, `right`, `center`, `justify`\par
\par
2. \cf2 Text-Decoration\cf0  - It property allow you to add decoration like underlines, overline or line-through to text.          \par
-individual properties `text-decoration-line`,`text-decoration-color`,`text-decoration-style`,`text-decoration-thickness`.\par
\par
3. \cf2 Text-Shadow\cf0  - It property allow you to add a shadow effects to text characters.\par
    - text-shadow: 2px 2px 1px blue; - (offset-x, offset-y, Blur-radius, color);\par
\par
4. \cf2 Text-Transform\cf0  - It property allow you to control the capitalization of text.\par
\par
5. \cf2 Text-Spacing\cf0  -\par
    -\cf2  `letter-spacing property`\cf0 - it property controls the spacing between characters in a text.\par
    - \cf2 `word-spacing property`\cf0  - it property controls the spacing between words in a text.\par
    - \cf2 `line-height property`\cf0  - it is used to specify the space between lines.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Box-Model in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 Box Model is a fundamental web design principle that describes how elements on a web page work together to create a box. It is a container that contains multiple properties including margin, border, padding, and the content itself.\par
\par
1. \cf2 Border\cf0  - The border shorthand CSS property sets an element's border. It sets the values of border-width, border-style, and border-color.\par
\par
Syntax - \par
    border: 2px solid red;  - (border-width, border-style, border-color).\par
\par
Syntax -\par
    \cf2 -for all side\cf0\par
    border-radius: 10px;\par
    \cf2 -[top-left/bottom-right] | [top-right/bottom-left]\cf0\par
    border-radius: 10px 20%;\par
    \cf2 -custom radius for each corner\cf0\par
    [top-left/top-right/bottom-right/bottom-left]\par
    border-radius: 15px 5px 10px 20px;\par
\par
2. \cf2 Padding\cf0  - Padding is used to create space around an element's content, inside of any defined borders.\par
    - \cf2 Uniform padding\cf0\par
        padding: 10px;\par
    - \cf2 Vertical and Horizontal padding\cf0\par
        padding: 5px, 10px; - 5px from top and bottom and 10px from left and right.\par
    - \cf2 top| left and right |bottom\cf0\par
        padding: 5px, 10px, 15px;\par
    - \cf2 top| right | bottom | left\cf0\par
        padding: 5px 10px 15px 20px;\par
    - \cf2 individual padding\cf0\par
        padding-top: 10px;\par
        padding-right: 10px;\par
        padding-bottom: 10px;\par
        padding-left: 10px;\par
\par
3. \cf2 Margin\cf0  - The margin property defines the space outside the element's border. It creates separation between the element and other elements in the layout.\par
Syntax - \par
    \cf2 [top|right|bottom|left]\cf0\par
    margin: 5px, 10px, 15px, 20px;\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Linear Gradient?\par
\cf0 The linear-gradient() function creates an image consisting of a progressive transition between two or more colors along a straight line.\par
\cf2 Linear Way Linear Gradient (Default)\cf0  -\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(red, yellow); \par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to right, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to left, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to top, red, yellow);\par
 \par
\cf2 Degrees Way Linear Gradient\cf0 -\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(90deg, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(180deg, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(270deg, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(360deg, red, yellow);\par
 \par
\cf2 Diagonal Way Linear Gradient\cf0 -\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to top right, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to top left, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to bottom left, red, yellow);\par
    background-image: linear-gradient(to bottom right, red, yellow);\par
\par
\cf2 Repeating-Linear-Gradient\cf0 -\par
    background-image: repeating-linear-gradient(45deg,#ff5733, #aeaeae 45px); - works only hexadecimal colors.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Radial Gradient?\par
\cf0 The radial-gradient() function sets a radial gradient as the background image.\par
A radial gradient define by its center.\par
To create radial gradient you must define two color stops.\par
\cf2 Default\cf0 -\par
    background-image: radial-gradient(red, yellow);\par
\par
\cf2 Shapes\cf0 -\par
    background-image: radial-gradient(circle, red, yellow, green);\par
    background-image: radial-gradient(ellipse, red, yellow, green);\par
\par
\cf2 Color Present\cf0 -\par
    background-image: radial-gradient(circle, red 30%, yellow 50%, green 20%);\par
\par
\cf2 Repeating-Radial-Gradient\cf0 -\par
    background-image: repeating-radial-gradient(#ff5733, #ffc3cf, #aeaeae 45px); - works only hexadecimal colors.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Box-Shadow in CSS? \cf2 (MOST IMPORTANT)\cf1\par
\cf0 box-shadow property adds a shadow effect around an element's frame.\par
\tab\cf2 -(offset-x, offset-y, blur_radius, Density/spread, color).\cf0\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Drop-Shadow in CSS? \cf2 (MOST IMPORTANT)\cf1\par
\cf0 drop shadow we can apply on images. it shows you object behind an object.\par
\cf2\tab -(offset-x, offset-y, blur_radius, color)\cf0\par
filter: drop-shadow(-2px 1px 2px #616671);\par
\par
\cf1 Q> What is Filter in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 CSS filters are set of graphical effects that can be applied on HTML elements to modify their appearance. filter can alter properties like color, contrast, brightness etc.\par
\par
\cf2 grayscale()\cf0  - convert the element to grayscale. a value 1 (or 100%) means fully grayscale.\par
        -filter:grayscale();\par
\cf2 blur()\cf0  - apply blur effect to the element.\par
        -filter:blur();\par
\cf2 brightness()\cf0  - adjusts the brightness of an element. value greater than 1 increase brightness and value less than 1 decrease it.\par
        -filter:brightness(1.5); 150% brightness\par
\cf2 contrast()\cf0  - adjusts the contrast of an element. similar to brightness.\par
       \cf2  \cf0 -filter:contrast(1.0);\par
\cf2 saturate()\cf0  - increase or decrease the saturation of an element.\par
        -filter:saturate(2); double saturate\par
\cf2 hue-rotate()\cf0  - Rotate the hue of the element. values are in degrees.\par
        -filter:hue-rotate(90deg);\par
\cf2 invert()\cf0  - invert the color of the element.\par
        -filter:invert(0.7); 70% color inversion\par
\cf2 opacity()\cf0  - Adjust the opacity (transparency) of the element. value range from 0 (completely transparent) to 1 (transparent opaque).\par
        -filter:opacity(0.5); 50%opacity.\par
\cf2 sepia()\cf0  - applies a sepia tone effect to the element. a value of 1(or 100%) fully sepia.\par
        -filter: sepia(0.7) 70%sepia effect.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is List in CSS?\par
\cf0 List Properties -\par
        -\cf2 List-style-type\cf0  - it is property specifies the type of list item marker.\par
        -\cf2 List-style-image\cf0  - it specifies an image as the list item marker.\par
        -\cf2 List-style-position \cf0 - it specifies the position of the list item marker(bullet points).\par
        -\cf2 List-style-property\cf0  - is a shorthand property. It is used to set all the list property in one declaration.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Anchor in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 Anchor state - CSS\par
        -\cf2 Link('a:link')\cf0  - This is the default state for an unvisited link.\par
        -\cf2 Visited('a:visited')\cf0  - This state applies to a link that the user has already visited.\par
        -\cf2 Hover('a:hover')\cf0  - This is state triggers when the user hovers their mouse pointer over a link.\par
        -\cf2 Active('a:active')\cf0  - This state is trigger when the user clicks on the link.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is combinators in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 CSS combinator are used to define relationship between element in your HTML document. They allow you to target elements based on their position and hierarchy within the document structure.\par
\cf2 Descendant Selector (Space)\cf0  - Select an element that is descendant of an another element.\par
\cf2 Child Selector (>)\cf0  - Select an element that is direct child of another element.\par
\cf2 Adjacent Sibling Selector (+)\cf0  - Select an element that is immediately preceded by another element.\par
\cf2 General Sibling Selector (~)\cf0  - Select all element that are sibling of another element and share the same parent.\par
\cf2 Universal selector (*)\cf0  - Select all the elements.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Display in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf2 display:block\cf0  - A block-level element in HTML is an element that takes up the full width of the element it's in, and starts a new line on the page. Block-level elements also take up as much horizontal space as possible, creating a "block". \par
\par
For example, each paragraph tag will appear on its own line vertically, and paragraphs with longer content will stretch to the edge of the page.\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 New line start- They start on a new line on a web page layout.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Fill width - They often taken a entire width of their container.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}No side-by-side - They don't next to each other horizontally. Common Example - include paragraph, heading, list, container.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Vertical stacking - They stack on top of each other, creating a vertical layout.\par

\pard\par
\cf2 display:inline\cf0  - Inline elements display in a line. They do not force the text after them to a new line. An anchor (or link) is an example of an inline element. You can put several links in a row, and they will display in a line.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Positions in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 The position property in css is used to control the positioning of elements within a web page. It defines how an element should be placed relative to its normal position in the document flow or relative to its parent or containing elements.\par
\par
\cf2 position:relative;\cf0  - Element with position relative are positioned relative to their normal position in the document flow.\par
properties: top, right, bottom, left: offset the element from its normal position.\par
\par
\cf2 position:absolute;\cf0  - Element with position absolute are positioned relative to the normal positioned ancestor or the initial containing block.\par
\par
\cf2 position:fixed;\cf0  - Element with position fixed are positioned relative to the viewport, so they remain in the same position even when the page is scrolled.\par
\par
\cf2 position:sticky;\cf0  - Element with position sticky are positioned according to the normal flow, but they become sticky and stay within the viewport once they reached a specify scroll position.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is z-index in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf0 The z-index property specifies the stack order of an element on a webpage. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Which element should be placed in front of, or behind or other element when they overlap in the same space. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Element in higher z-index are placed in front of an element with lower z-index value.\par

\pard\par
\cf1 Q. What is Overflow in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf0 Overflow property in css is used to control how content overflows.\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Its containing element when it doesn't fit within the available space. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}It's useful property of handling content that exceeds its container's dimensions.\par

\pard\par
\cf2 visible - Default.\cf0  The overflow is not clipped. The content renders outside the element's box\par
\cf2 hidden\cf0  - The overflow is clipped, and the rest of the content will be invisible\par
\cf2 scroll\cf0  - The overflow is clipped, and a scrollbar is added to see the rest of the content\par
\cf2 auto\cf0  - Similar to scroll, but it adds scrollbars only when necessary\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Column-Layout in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 Column layout is a visual way to flow content from one column to another. \par
The number of columns is determined by the columns property, which is a shorthand property that sets both the column-count and column-width properties at the same time. \par
\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf2 column-count \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}column-gap \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}column-rule \par

\pard\cf0     \tab\tab\cf1 column-rule-style\par
    \tab\tab column-rule-width \par
    \tab\tab column-rule-color\cf0  \par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf2 column-span \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}column-width\par

\pard\cf0\par
\cf1 Q. What is Pseudo Element in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par
\cf0 A CSS pseudo-element is used to style specified parts of an element.\par
\par
For example, it can be used to:\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720 Style the first letter, or line, of an element\par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}Insert content before, or after, the content of an element\par

\pard ::before\par
::after\par
::first-letter\par
::first-line\par
::selection\par
::placeholder\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Pseudo Class in CSS?\par
\cf0 A CSS pseudo class is a keyword added to a selector that specifies a special state of the selector element(s).\par
\cf1\par
\cf0 :first-child\par
:last-child\par
:hover\par
:nth-child(n)\par
:first-of-type\par
:last-of-type\par
\par
\cf2 :first-child -\cf0  selects the first child element of its parent.\par
\cf2 :last-child\cf0  - selects the last child element of its parent.\par
\cf2 :nth-child(n)\cf0  - selects element based on their  position within a parent element, where "n" is a numeric value.\par
\cf2 :first-of-type\cf0  - selects the first element of its type within its parent.\par
\cf2 :last-of-type\cf0  - selects the last element of its type within its parent.\par
\cf2 :nth-of-type\cf0  - selects elements of a specified type based on their position within a parent.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Flexbox in css?\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf0 Flexbox is a one-dimensional layout model that helps you distribute space along a single axis(either horizontally or vertically) in a flexible and efficient way. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}It allows you to align and distribute elements within a container, making it easier to create complex layouts without using floats and positioning.\par

\pard\par
\cf1 Flex-Container Properties (Parent) -\cf0\par
1. \cf2 Flex-container (display:flex;)\cf0  : It is used to create flexbox layout, you need a flex container. Apply display: flex; to the container element.\par
.flex-container\{\par
    display:flex;\par
\}\par
\par
2. \cf2 Flex-Items\cf0  : It is an element inside the flex container is called as flex item. Flex item can be aligned and distribute along main axis.\par
\par
\cf1 3. Main Axis and Cross Axis : \cf3 In Flex-container, one axis is considered the main-axis, and other is the cross axis. You can set the main axis to be either horizontal(row) or vertical (column).\cf0\par
\par
4. \cf2 Flex-Direction (flex-direction)\cf0  : It use flex direction to specify the direction to either main axis or cross axis.\par
Values: row, row-reverse, column, column-reverse.\par
.flex-container\{\par
    flex-direction: row;  //Horizontal main-axis (default)\par
\}\par
If the flex direction : row then horizontal will be main-axis and vertical become the cross-axis.\par
If the flex direction : column then vertical part will be main-axis and horizontal axis become the cross-axis.\par
\par
5. \cf2 Justify Content (justify-content):\cf0  justify-content aligns flex items along the main axis.\par
   Values include : flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-evenly, and space-around.\par
\par
6. \cf2 Align Items (align-items):\cf0  align-items aligns flex items along the cross axis.\par
   Values include : flex-start, flex-end, center, stretch and baseline.\par
\par
7. \cf2 flex-wrap:\cf0  It use to flex items should wrap to the next line when they overflow the container.\par
   Values : no-wrap(default), wrap, wrap-reverse.\par
    We can use align-content only when if i use flex-wrap property. otherwise i will not be able to use.\par
\par
8.\cf2  align-content:\cf0  Aligns multiple lines of flex items when there is extra space along the cross axis.\par
   Values : flex-start, flex-end, center, space-between, space-around, stretch.\par
\par
\cf2 gap:\cf0  20px - gap property we can use to give space equally between the items and it's apply only between the items.\par
\par
\cf2 aspect-ratio\cf0  - It is a property we can use to give exact width and height equally.\par
\par
\cf1 Q. What is Variables in CSS? (MOST IMPORTANT)\par

\pard{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf1\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\cf0 CSS Variables, also known as a CSS custom properties, allow you to define reusable values in your css code. \par
{\pntext\f1\'B7\tab}They provide more flexibility or maintainability to your style.\par

\pard\cf2\par
1. Declaration and Syntax:\cf0  \par
        Declare a css variable with the --prefix followed by a name, for example: --main-color.\par
        Assign a value to the variable using the var() function, like this: \cf2 var(--main-color).\cf0\par
        Variables can store various type of values, such as colors, numbers, text and more.\par
        ex: --main-color:#3498db;\par
\par
\cf2 2. Variable Definition:\par
\cf0         You can define a variable in various places, including at the root level, within a selector, or even inside a specific css rule.\par
        :root\{ --main-color: #3498db; \}\par
\cf2\par
3. Variable Usage: \par
\cf0         Use the var keyword\par
        .button\{\par
            background-color: var(--main-color);\par
        \}\par
\par
\par
Q. What is Grid in CSS?\par
\par
}
 